Every process in an organisation has certain goals to achieve. The process is said to be performing well if it is meeting its specific goals. 
Supply chain planning process is divided into smaller activities. These activities are carried out to have an effective and efficient supply chain. These activities are as follows:

Demand planning: It refers to the process of forecasting or predicting the demand for products to ensure that they can be delivered to satisfy customer needs. While planning for demand one must take into account the following:

Pull Processes: Pull processes are performed in response to customer demand. A pull process happens when the market asks for supply and the manufacturer delivers the supply.

Push Processes: Push processes are performed in anticipation of customer demand. A push process happens when the manufacturer pushes the product out into the market, regardless of the market wanting the supply.

Demand planning will be discussed in detail in the next session.

Supply planning: It refers to the entire planning process including distribution, manufacturing and procurement operations, in accordance with the demand forecasts, considering capacity constraints and material availability.
Supply chain is a business aspect that functions with a singular objective of creating value for your business. 

 different business processes of a typical and effective supply chain are always integrated. This integration occurs through the following set of interdependent processes:

Facility network
Material handling equipment (MHE)
Transportation
Inventory
Order management
The single biggest advantage of the integration of these processes is the continuous interaction between them which ensures that the integrated supply chain is capable of managing all the performance parameters.
a typical supply chain consists of certain touchpoints, which are as follows:


Supplier 

Factory

Customer

You also analysed how to arrange different business processes along the three touchpoints of a supply chain with the help of the example of Apple Inc.

Over the past many years, supply chain strategy has evolved a lot and organisations are finding new ways to differentiate themselves and succeed through their supply chains. You will learn about this in the next segment.
In this video, Kinchit talked about one of the world’s biggest fast-fashion retailers, Zara. Surprisingly, Zara has a product lead time of about one week, whereas competitors have a lead time of close to six months. Some key points to remember about Zara’s supply chain are as follows:

Zara adopted a strategy to keep all of the production in-house, which helped it reduce the product lead time. Zara also developed a robust ecosystem of having all its suppliers in its vicinity.
Zara's strategy is to produce in small lot sizes and maintain a limited inventory of one product type. The benefits of this strategy are two-fold:
It does not have to block its working capital in the form of inventory.
The chances of inventory getting redundant with the launch of a new product are reduced.
You also learnt about the unique supply chain model of Mumbai dabbawalas. Kinchit explained how a coding system is used to achieve an error rate of one in a million deliveries.
supply planning is the entire planning process and it includes procurement, manufacturing and distribution operations, in accordance with demand forecasts, considering capacity constraints and material availability.
Supply planning broadly consists of the following three major components:

Procurement
Manufacturing
Distribution
 
you recognised the following obstacles that an organisation faces in achieving the strategic fit:

Increasing product variety
Rise in customers that are more demanding
Conflicts arising between different stakeholders within an organisation in taking up supply chain ownership
Globalisation within the organisation
Changing business environment
Difficulties faced while executing new strategies

This business plan is broken down to individual material requirements for a defined finite period. The process of working out these requirements for a medium-range (between 2–3 months and 12–15 months) is called aggregate planning.


You also learnt about the advantages of conducting aggregate planning for an organisation. Some of these advantages are as follows:

Aggregate planning helps organisations in dealing with the production facilities in a lean manner.

It helps to develop effective strategic plans as well as relationships with distributors and suppliers.

It helps in the optimisation of inventory.

It serves as a useful tool for making viable forecasts.

It helps organisations to identify the best options so that they can meet the demand easily.

It assists in knowing about the inefficiencies that exist within the organisation.

It also helps to determine resources within the organisation that are required in the manufacturing process.

Organisations have to plan for their production to meet the supply requirements of products. There are three types of aggregate planning strategies that organisations follow to plan for their production. Let’s hear about them from our expert Shyam.

 aggregate planning strategies: 

Level strategy

A level strategy maintains a steady production rate as well as the level of the workforce by continuing consistent human resources and production in the organisation.

Chase strategy

A chase strategy keeps pace with demand fluctuations by varying either the actual level of output or the workforce number.

Hybrid strategy

A hybrid strategy maintains a sufficient balance between the stock level, recruiting, termination and production rate.
sales and operations planning (S&OP) is an aspect of supply chain planning whose goal is to create a unified, consensus-based business plan. This consensus is achieved through the cross-functional collaboration between the following departments:

Sales
Marketing
Manufacturing
Distribution
Finance
Human resources
